the Joker is a recurring supervillain
from DC Comics and is the archenemy of
Batman in many books and movies about a
Joker he is portrayed as an
unpredictable bloodthirsty crazy
psychopath
that wants to see the world burn hence
his nicknames like Clown Prince of Crime
the ace of knaves and the Jester of
genocide now the movie Joker released in
2019 shows us a more in-depth look into
the psychology of this character and
slightly reveals his philosophical
positions towards life and modern
society this video explores the
psychological as well as the
philosophical side of the Joker based on
Union psychology and the philosophical
ideas of Albert Camus beware this video
contains spoilers
[Music]
The Joker's life starts out as tragic
author which is his real name lives with
his sick mother named penny Fleck that
he takes care of religiously in return
she validates him for being a good
person the movie shows that Arthur takes
pride in the fact that he is indeed a
very good person and that his purpose in
life is to put a smile on people's faces
in the cold harsh world we live in
also his mother taught him to always put
on a happy face towards the outside
world he has a job as a clown to
entertain children and his dream is
becoming a successful stand-up comedian
so Arthur grows up as a people pleaser
or someone whose life revolves around
serving others and make people happy his
mother in particular while disregarding
his own needs he fantasizes about an
audience that likes him an external
validation seems to be his life breath
later becomes clear that beyond the
service of Arthur's personality grows a
huge ugly monster that he doesn't seem
to be aware of snippets of this monster
come out sometimes in the form of a
laugh that he cannot control even though
his condition is brushed off as a
sickness he later tells his mother that
it's not the laughs are really part of
his personality Swiss psychologist Carl
Jung wrote extensively about the
phenomenon called the shadow which I've
made a separate video about the shadow
is a set of personality traits that are
deemed undesirable either by the person
itself or the environment but often both
and therefore these traits are pushed
away into the unconscious according to
Jung everyone carries a shadow but the
more it is repressed the denser it
becomes authors clown face symbolizes
the persona the false self that we show
the environment while the uncontrollable
laughs can be considered the
manifestations of an utterly dense
shadow that the author is unaware of
after all he sees himself as a good
person until he receives a gun after he
has been beaten up by a bunch of boys in
an alley when three so-called yuppies
attack him on a subway train author
while dressed up as a clown kills two
out of self-defense and chases after the
third one and murders him from this
point author discovers what evil is
really capable of and that he isn't that
good of a boy that his mother tells him
he is probably he spent his life living
the image that his mother has created
for him ignoring everything that
festered in the darkness in regards to
Arthur's relationship with his mother we
could say that she partly fulfills
Young's devouring mother archetype the
devouring mother feeds on her own fruits
her children because they validate her
role as a mother I suspect that she has
been clinging on to him in a way that he
never obtained the skills to
metaphorically leave the womb and
establish himself in the world despite
the apparent abuse in his childhood
author indeed stays at his mother's side
and we can sometimes see Klim sees of
specification in which the child takes
on the role of the parents spouse now
Arthur's killings on the subway train
lead to an explosion in the media his
own shadow manifestations seem to
resonate with a large collective shadow
that has been growing in the poor areas
of Gotham City resulting in violent
protests with Kilda rich as a slogan the
mysterious clown that killed her rich
guys that worked for Thomas Wayne a
famous physician philanthropist and
Batman's father is seen as a hero of the
city's economically marginalized you
noticed the danger of collective shadows
during the Nazi uprising in Germany
saying the change of character brought
about by the up rush of collective
forces is amazing a gentle and
reasonable being can be transformed into
a maniac or a savage beast one is always
inclined to lay the blame on external
circumstances but nothing could explode
in us if it had not been there and quote
we see this manifest itself in the
increasing violence and brutality of the
protesters also we can see a complete
disregard for the collective shadow by
thalmus Wayne who caused the protesters
clowns and patronizes them by saying
that he has the solution for their
unfortunate state author however doesn't
really seem to have hatred for rich
people specifically he just can't stand
the fact that people are so cruel to
each other nowadays he later admitted
that this was the reason why he killed
the three yuppies his former coworker
and TV show host Maury Franklin
nevertheless he becomes a martyr for the
collective shadow Arthur doesn't really
get to the individuation phase rather he
is completely taken over by his shadow
because he wasn't aware of it in the
first place the monster inside was able
to grow beyond his control when it comes
out as the Joker but we do see brief
moments of self-awareness during his
transition he seems to experience the
shadow coming to the surface as a
manifestation of his true self saying
through my whole life I didn't know if I
even really existed but I do and people
are starting to notice
Arthur is delusional and psychotic this
becomes clear when all of his
interactions with his neighbor and crush
Sophie Dumont were just his fantasy
which could be a product of his intense
loneliness and desire for companionship
when he finds out he becomes aware that
there's something not right in his mind
but the final blow is the revelation of
the truth about his mother and himself
as a son it turns out that his mother
had an affair with Thomas Wayne in the
past and claims that Arthur is their
illegitimate child
Arthur snaps at his mother because of
this and confronts Wayne who tells him
the truth his mother adopted him when
Arthur finds out what his mother did he
kills her by choking her with a cushion
he says afterwards that he always
thought that his life is a tragedy but
now realizes that it's a comedy at that
moment he merges with his new identity
the Joker and his philosophical view on
the world shifts from being an agent for
good to the acceptance that life is
nothing more than a comedy show
[Music]
now we arrive in a domain of a French
Algerian philosopher Albert Camus who
believed that life is absurd
in his novels we can see that when we
look at the circumstances and the way
life plays out there's not much to say
for true universal morality and ethics
everything seems to happen randomly
author makes a similar conclusion when
he states that when three rich yuppies
that happen to work for Thomas Wayne are
killed the whole city is in turmoil but
when something similar would happen to
him no one would bat an eye comparable
to the thoughts of commune he questions
the validity of what is good and what is
bad or specifically what is funny and
what isn't he sees that these things are
decided by society and that we judge
each other based on a normative
framework that is not universal but just
a product of the human mind in his novel
the stranger cim yux tells us about a
character named sue who kills an arab
man who has a dispute with his friend
heimo before this event
musso's mother dies the fact that he
didn't show emotions at the funeral
annoyed and amazed his environment when
he is on trial for killing the arab he
is sentenced to death mainly because of
his emotionless appearance during his
mother's funeral what Camus shows here
is a man that was simply himself and
hardly shows emotions outwardly not even
when his mother dies but because this
behavior deviates from the norm society
sees him as a suspect when you think of
it it's kind of absurd to sentence
someone to death almost entirely based
on being a bit different from what's
perceived as normal in a certain culture
in a similar way
calling people clowns because they think
differently and act differently it's
kind of absurd as well so the Joker
comes to the conclusion that the current
system of morals and ethics is kind of
ridiculous and that he is going to
decide for himself what's good and bad
but by doing so he raised himself to the
position of judge who feels that killing
bad people is justified at the same time
he
points out that the riots and the
killings are simply a matter of cause
and effect you get what you deserve
he says before he shoots from Murray
Franklin the Joker
embraces the absurd in which he finds
freedom and empowerment it changes his
position towards life from tragedy to
comedy and because it's a comedy it
transcends all existing morals and
ethics into chaos I guess that this
makes him so unpredictable what's it
good at one moment could be bad in
another what does it matter it's one big
joke anyway from Camus philosophical
viewpoints I suspect that he doesn't
fear God either because the absurd man
knows that if there's a god-like being
it's probably completely indifferent
towards the affairs of human beings the
absurdity of life the unfairness the
randomness the realization that being
evil often pays and being good doesn't
is evidence that supports that
conclusion now we could see the
absurdity of life as an opportunity to
find our own sense of fulfillment and
meaning and fortunately being subjected
by an utterly dense shadow the Joker's
embrace of the absurd and faults in
chaos and destruction thank you for
watching
[Music]
you